Abstract
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions presents a sustainable method for renewable ammonia production. However, the development of high-performance NRR electrocatalysts with satisfactory efficiency and selectivity remains a significant challenge. Herein, we design and synthesize two metal-porphyrin based 3D COFs bearing metal-N4 catalytic sites with different 3D spatial arrangements (scu and flu topologies) for this purpose. The anchoring of metal ions (Fe, Cu) at the center of the planar conjugated-porphyrin ring enhances the activity and selectivity of electrocatalytic NRR. Significantly, the 3D COFs with Fe-N4 catalytic sites feature higher NH3 yield and Faradaic efficiency (94.26 +/- 4.9 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) and 18.37 +/- 0.96 % at-0.5 V vs RHE, reversible hydrogen electrode) than those with Cu-N-4 centers, making them promising candidates for NRR electrocatalysts. This work not only enriches the topological library of 3D COFs, but also provides an idea for the rational design of metal porphyrin-based COFs for NH3 production.
Due to the alarming increase in anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions, there is an urgent need to replace the fossil fuel-driven Haber-Bosch process with green ammonia production. Electrochemical nitrogen fixation has shown preliminary promise for industrially ammonia synthesis, but an in-depth mechanistic understanding of the nitrogen reduction process remains limited. Herein, a unique dinitrogen desorption mechanism for the nitrogen reduction reaction is detected on the bismuth nanocrystals, which may explain some intriguing phenomena reported in previous works, including (1) why hydrazine is still generated in some nitrogen reduction reactions that do not follow the alternating pathway, and (2) a minor change in bismuth particle size can lead to a dramatic change in NRR performance. In addition, the experimental and theoretical calculation results reveal that the dinitrogen desorption pathway involving the transfer of two electrons usually shows lower energy barriers and faster reaction kinetics, resulting in a dramatic enhancement in NRR performance.
The electrocatalytic conversion of nitric oxide (NORR) to ammonia (NH3) represents a pivotal approach for sustainable energy transformation and efficient waste utilization. Designing highly effective catalysts to facilitate the conversion of NO into NH3 remains a formidable challenge. In this work, the density functional theory (DFT) is used to design NORR catalysts based on single and double transition metal (TM:Fe, Co, Ni and Cu) atoms supported by graphdiyne (TM@GDY). Among eight catalysts, the Cu2@GDY is selected as a the most stable NORR catalyst with high NH3 activity and selectivity. A pivotal discovery underscores that the NORR mechanism is thermodynamically constrained on single atom catalysts (SACs), while being governed by electrochemical processes on double atom catalysts (DACs), a distinction arising from the different d -band centers of these catalysts. Therefore, this work not only introduces an efficient NORR catalyst but also provides crucial insights into the fundamental parameters influencing NORR performance.
The exceptional electronic properties and potential applications of black phosphorus (BP) have garnered significant interest in the fields of electrochemical catalysis and energy storage. However, its poor environmental stability severely hampers its practical use. In this study, an innovative strategy is proposed to protect fresh black phosphorene (BPene) against oxidation by adsorbing or weakly bonding aluminum ions (Al3+) onto its surface, while facilitating their self-removal under operating conditions. By leveraging Al3+-protected black phosphorene (Al-BPene) as a catalyst for the electrocatalytic reduction of nitrogen to ammonia (NH3), the effectiveness of this removable Al3+-protected strategy is demonstrated. Quantitative analysis reveals that Al-BPene maintains structural and compositional stability for over 7 days under ambient conditions, while the Al3+ can be readily eliminated through self-desorption or dissolution in the electrolyte. With highly active sites pre-protected, Al-BPene exhibits a striking NH3 yield rate of 55.1 mu g h-1 mg cat-1 and a Faradaic efficiency (FE) of 66.5% in alkaline media, as exemplified by the representative application example. Moreover, it is found that the prepared Al-BPene can tolerate a thermal environment, and a higher NH3 yield rate of 75 mu g h-1 mg cat-1 at 60 degrees C is recorded. Undoubtedly, these findings pave the way for broader applications of BPene. A removable aluminum ion protection strategy is proposed to protect black phosphorene against oxidation under ambient conditions, while facilitating the self-removal of aluminum to regenerate fresh black phosphorene with enhanced reactivity under operating conditions. As exemplified by a representative application, this approach enables black phosphorene to exhibit an impressive Faradaic efficiency of 66.5% for ammonia electrosynthesis.image
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) paves a sustainable way to produce NH3 but suffering from the relatively low NH3 yield and poor selectivity. High-performance NRR catalysts and a deep insight into the structure-performance relationship are higher desired. Herein, a molten-salt approach is developed to synthesize tiny CeO2 nanoparticles anchored by ultra-thin MoN nanosheets as advanced catalysts for NRR. Specifically, a considerably high NH3 yield rate of 27.5 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) with 17.2% Faradaic efficiency (FE) can be achieved at -0.3 V vs (RHE) under ambient conditions. Experimental and density functional theory (DFT) calculations further point out that the incorporation of MoN with CeO2 can promotes the enlargement of the electron deficient area of nitrogen vacancy site. The enlarged electron deficient area contributes to the accommodation of lone pair electrons of N-2, which dramatically improves the N-2 adsorption/activation and the key intermediates (*NNH and *NH3) generation, thus boosting the NRR performance.
The synthesis of N-containing chemicals directly from N-2 is highly desirable in chemistry but has been challenged by inert N-2 molecules and limited product scope. Herein we propose a cascade electrosynthesis strategy for the facile reduction of N-2 and subsequent conversion to various N-containing chemicals via a looped Li-N-2 battery. The electrosynthesis of lithium bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl)imide is illustrated as a prototype using cascade reactions involving electrocatalytic N-2 reduction to Li3N on discharge, a relay reaction of Li3N acylation to lithium bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl)imide and finally the elimination of the LiCl by-product on charge to complete the synthesis loop. This strategy provides direct access to analogues with different N-X bonds (X = S, C and so on) and metal cations (Li+, Zn2+ and so on) by extending the substrate scope, and can be scaled up for improved energy efficiency and atom economy. This work provides a general electrosynthesis protocol for the practical production of N-containing chemicals and has potential implications for a wider field of sustainable chemistry.
The Haber-Bosch process, commonly used for ammonia synthesis, can be replaced by the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR), which offers a more environmentally conscious and sustainable approach. However, developing electrocatalysts with low potential, high selectivity, and fast reaction kinetics remains challenging. In the current work, we have theoretically calculated the potential of V@B5N3 and V@B7N5 (V = Vanadium) material which serves as an electrocatalyst for NRR using density functional theory (DFT) simulations. Our results reveal that the monolayer of V@B7N5 exhibits remarkable catalytic activity and effectively suppresses the hydrogen evolution reaction at an overpotential of 0.13 V. Furthermore, the potential-determining step involving the conversion of *N-2-*N2H demonstrates a favourable energy barrier, indicating facile kinetics. The V@B7N5 monolayer shows promising selectivity, with an anticipated ammonia production efficiency of 99%. These findings open avenues for employing single-atom catalysts under ambient conditions to synthesise ammonia, offering a potential solution for sustainable ammonia production.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is a promising technology for ammonia synthesis under environmental conditions due to its simplicity of operation, high energy conversion, and environmental friendliness. While development of an efficient and stable electrocatalyst is one of the remaining key challenges. In this paper, the electrocatalytic performance of single Ru atoms anchored in Bn-doped graphyne (RuBn@GY) is systematically investigated using density functional theory (DFT) calculations. The results show that RuB@GY is a highly efficient NRR electrocatalyst with a distal and alternating mechanism considered to be the most active catalytic pathway, with a limiting potential of only - 0.53 V. Overall, our study facilitates the NRR reaction by controlling the number and position of the doped B atoms to reduce the limiting potential, and this work provides theoretical guidance for the further development of highly active and stable single-atom catalysts (SACs).Graphical Abstract Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is a promising technology for ammonia synthesis under environmental conditions due to its simplicity of operation, high energy conversion, and environmental friendliness.
We compared the production rates and the destruction frequencies of ammonia in inductively coupled H2O/N-2 and H-2/N-2 plasmas. We observed that the production rates of ammonia ranged between 4 and 7 mu mol/s both in the H2O/N-2 and H-2/N-2 plasmas generated at rf powers between 100 and 160 W, corresponding to the energy cost of 23-25 mol/MJ. Almost the same production rates suggest the usefulness of H2O as the resource for hydrogenation of atomic nitrogen adsorbed on surfaces. On the other hand, the destruction frequency was 2-4 times higher in the H2O/N-2 than H-2/N-2 plasmas. Although the H2O/N-2 plasma has a drawback in the destruction frequency, the present work shows its potential for the direct synthesis of ammonia from water with skipping the production of hydrogen.
Developing low-cost and sustainable catalytic systems to realize efficient nitrogen fixation has always been the pursued goal. Here, we report an efficient electrocatalyst synthesized via a simple self-assembly process from supramolecular cucurbit[6]uril (Q[6]) and a heteropolyacid for nitrogen oxidation. The as-prepared self-assembly material Q[6]-PMA with high stability and specific surface area shows a prominent activity in the electrocatalytic nitrogen oxidation reaction (NOR), affording a yield of nitrate (NO3-) of up to 271.5 +/- 5.6 mu g h-1 mgcat-1 with a Faraday efficiency (FE) of 71.2 +/- 3.8%. The 15N isotope-labeling experiment confirmed that the nitrogen source of nitrate formation is derived from N2. The results of the in situ XPS technique and in situ FITR experiments demonstrate that the molybdenum center of Q[6]-PMA is the main active site of the NOR and the corresponding cucurbit[6]uril unit is conducive to the stability of key intermediates. A supramolecular self-assembler of cucurbit[6]uril-phosphomolybdic acid with a multi-valence state is constructed to realize an efficient nitrogen oxidation reaction.
The catalytic mechanisms of nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) on the pristine and Co/alpha-MoC(001) surfaces were explored by density functional theory calculations. The results show that the preferred pathway is that a direct N equivalent to N cleavage occurs first, followed by continuous hydrogenations. The production of second NH3 molecule is identified as the rate-limiting step on both systems with kinetic barriers of 1.5 and 2.0 eV, respectively, indicating that N-2-to-NH3 transformation on bimetallic surface is more likely to occur. The two components of the bimetallic center play different roles during NRR process, in which Co atom does not directly participate in the binding of intermediates, but primarily serves as a reservoir of H atoms. This special synergy makes Co/alpha-MoC(001) have superior activity for ammonia synthesis. The introduction of Co not only facilitates N-2 dissociation, but also accelerates the migration of H atom due to the antibonding characteristic of Co-H bond. This study offers a facile strategy for the rational design and development of efficient catalysts for ammonia synthesis and other reactions involving the hydrogenation processes.
The synthesis of ammonia via electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) provides an attractive alternative approach to the traditional Haber-Bosch process. In this regard, a one-step hydrothermal method was adopted to synthesize a bimetallic oxide, ferric molybdate (Fe2(MoO4)3), coated with carbon black on the surface (denoted as Fe2(MoO4)3/C). The carbon black coating minimizes aggregation of Fe2(MoO4)3, leading to increased electrochemical active sites for NRR. Additionally, this coating improves the electrical conductivity of Fe2(MoO4)3 thereby accelerating electron transfer between carbon black and Fe2(MoO4)3, which is beneficial to charge transfer and enlarge the electrochemical active surface areas. At a potential of -0.4 VRHE (vs. reversible hydrogen electrode, RHE), the ammonia yield achieved was up to 51.76 mg h-1 mgcat-1, with a Faradaic efficiency of 90.63% at -0.35VRHE. Impressively, this electrocatalyst exhibited excellent cycle stability and durability.(c) 2023 Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The electrochemical NO reduction reaction (NORR) towards NH3 is considered a promising strategy to cope with both NO removal and NH3 production. Currently, the research on NORR electrocatalysts mainly focuses on metal-based catalysts, while metal-free catalysts are quite scarce. In this work, we have systematically investigated the properties of pristine and C/O doped h-BN for efficient NO capture and reduction. Our results reveal that the basal plane of pristine h-BN is inert to the adsorption of NO, while doping C or O can significantly enhance the NO capture abilities of h-BN. Then, we highlight that C-doped h-BN exhibits excellent NORR catalytic performance with a relatively low limiting potential of -0.28 V. Further analysis shows that the suitable adsorption strength of NO on the C-doped h-BN surface is the prime reason for its excellent NO reduction activity, which is shown to be due to appropriate electronic interactions between the active site and NO. Last but not least, the catalytic selectivity of h-BN towards the NORR is confirmed by inhibiting the competing hydrogen evolution reaction. Our findings not only provide deeper insight into the essential effect of element doping on the catalytic activities of h-BN, but also propose general design principles for high-performance metal-free NORR electrocatalysts. The electrochemical NO reduction reaction (NORR) towards NH3 is considered a promising strategy to cope with both NO removal and NH3 production.
Electrocatalyst plays animportant role in electrochemical ammonia synthesis by determining the nitrogen reduction reaction pathway. Featuring the inherent half-filled 3d orbitals, ion-based alloy electrocatalysts have been attracting much more attention owing to the controllable driving force to adsorb and activate N equivalent to N bonds. Besides supplying unoccupied d-orbital to accommodate lone-pair electrons to facilitate nitrogen adsorption, donating d-orbital electrons to nitrogen antibonding orbitals to dissociate N equivalent to N bond is demandedas well. By palladium (Pd) to synthesize PdFe3 nano-alloy, numerous Fe 3d orbitals can be reconstructed via charge polarization between Fe and Pd, simultaneously lowering corresponding work functions. Meanwhile, the positively charged Fesites in PdFe3 can strengthen suppress the proton adsorption by electrostatic repulsion. A considerably optimized ammonia production rate of 29.07 mu g h(-1) mg(cat).(-1) and Faradic efficiency of 22.8% are accomplished at a low overpotential of -0.2 V vs. RHE. Density functional theory combined with in-situ ATR-FTIR results confirmthe electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction follows the associative distalmechanism and the electron-deficient Fe induced through Pd facilitates significantly lowering the first-step-protonation energy barrier of only 0.07 eV (*N-2+ *H ->*NNH).
This work reports that a low-temperature thermal calcination strategy was adopted to modulate the electronic structure and attain an abundance of surface-active sites while maintaining the crystal morphology. All the experiments demonstrate that the new photocatalyst nano MIL-125(Ti)-250 obtained by thermal calcination strategy has abundant Ti3+ induced by oxygen vacancies and high specific surface area. This facilitates the adsorption and activation of N-2 molecules on the active sites in the photocatalytic nitrogen fixation. The photocatalytic NH3 yield over MIL-125(Ti)-250 is enhanced to 156.9 mu mol g(-1) h(-1), over twice higher than that of the parent MIL-125(Ti) (76.2 mu mol g(-1) h(-1)). Combined with density function theory (DFT), it shows that the N-2 adsorption pattern on the active sites tends to be from end-on to side-on mode, which is thermodynamically favourable. Moreover, the electrochemical tests demonstrate that the high atomic ratio of Ti3+/Ti4+ can enhance carrier separation, which also promotes the efficiency of photocatalytic N-2 fixation. This work may offer new insights into the design of innovative photocatalysts for various chemical reduction reactions.
Electrocatalytic C-N coupling process is indeed a sustainable alternative for direct urea synthesis and co-upgrading of carbon dioxide and nitrate wastes. However, the main challenge lies in the unactivated C-N coupling process. Here, we proposed a strategy of intermediate assembly with alkali metal cations to activate C-N coupling at the electrode/electrolyte interface. Urea synthesis activity follows the trend of Li+
Renewable production of ammonia via the electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is highly desirable. However, rational design of electrocatalysts with high promising activity under ambient conditions is a challenging subject. In this work, the stability, NRR activity and selectivity of single transition metal (TM, TM = Ti, V, Fe, Ni, Nb, Mo, Ru, and W), nonmetal B and N, and TM and N3 co-modification Zr2CO2 (named TM/Zr2CO2, B (N)/Zr2CO2, and TMN3/Zr2CO2, respectively) are investigated by density functional theory (DFT) calculations. The results revealed that single atom (both transition metal and nonmetal atoms) modification can greatly enhance the NRR catalytic activity and selectivity of original Zr2CO2, and different nonmetal doping concentration can deliver different NRR activity by adjust the interaction strength between doping atom and Zr atom. Among the studied materials, W/Zr2CO2 possesses the highest NRR performance via the distal pathway with the NRR overpotential (qNRR) of 0.14 V, B/Zr2CO2 possesses the highest NRR performance (qNRR = 0.26 V) and selectivity via the enzymatic pathway, and for the co-doped systems, RuN3/Zr2CO2 delivers the highest NRR activity with the corresponding qNRR of 0.54 V. The crystal orbital Hamilton population (COHP), density of states, charge transfers, and work function (phi) results indicated that the TM and nonmetal atoms can adjust the electronic properties of the Zr2CO2 surface to break the inertness of N2 and form the key intermediate *NNH or *N*NH, and therefore enhance their NRR activity. The ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) simulation results suggested that the structures of the modified Zr2CO2 are dynamically stable at reaction temperature. These results indicated that the proposed surface modifications by W and nonmetal B are the effective approaches for achieving promising NRR electrocatalysts for N2 fixation.
The sustainable synthesis of ammonia via the direct reduction of nitrogen is expected to be achieved by the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) method; continuous efforts have been devoted to the search for excellent NRR catalysts. Herein, inspired by a few recent works, we performed a comprehensive first-principles calculation on eight vanadium (V)-anchored sulfur (S)-doped graphene catalysts (V-SxCNc-x@Gr) to study their NRR catalytic performance. V-S2C@Gr exhibits superior activity with extremely high limiting potential (U-L) of -0.17 V, outstanding thermodynamic/electrochemical stabilities, and good selectivity. Surprisingly, V-S-3@Gr is even better than V-S2C@Gr. On V-S-3@Gr, the NRR is an exothermic process with continuously decreasing Gibbs free energy. The NRR can spontaneously occur on it without an externally applied potential. We also found that doping more S in the coordination environment of V leads to more charges accumulating around V, thus improving the more effective activation of the NN bond and, finally, higher U-L. It is worth trying the V/S combination on other substrates and more excellent NRR catalysts are expected to be found, this work can provide certain reference basis.
The sustainable development of novel photo/electrocatalytic CO2/N-2 fixation for chemical synthesis is predicated on reliable, accurate, and rapid detection methods. The directness, specificity, and simultaneity in detecting multiple molecules of the H-1 nuclear magnetic resonance (H-1-NMR) technique have aroused increasing interest in photo/electrocatalysis. Thus far, two data processing means have been developed for the precise H-1-NMR data processing: peak integral and peak height methods. However, few detailed studies offer a clear steer for choosing data processing methods for the concerned products in photo/electrocatalysis, especially the guidelines under the conditions of baseline distortions induced by water suppression. Herein, the feasible practices are restudied to quantify classical products in photo/electrocatalytic CO2/N-2 fixation. On the basis of experimental results, H-1-NMR data processing methods (peak integral and peak height methods) are found to convey different applicability for the different low-concentration products, while introducing water suppression in the H-1-NMR tests. The essential reason can be attributed to the baseline distortions caused by the water suppression, which arouses differentiated deviation of peaks with different peak widths. With this in mind, an accessible quantification criterion is provided to avoid superfluous input of time or cost in precise H-1-NMR detection of low-concentration products.
Understanding the correlation between the fundamental descriptors and catalytic performance is meaningful to guide the design of high-performance electrochemical catalysts. However, exploring key factors that affect catalytic performance in the vast catalyst space remains challenging for people. Herein, to accurately identify the factors that affect the performance of N-2 reduction, we apply interpretable machine learning (ML) to analyze high-throughput screening results, which is also suited to other surface reactions in catalysis. To expound on the paradigm, 33 promising catalysts are screened from 168 carbon-supported candidates, specifically single-atom catalysts (SACs) supported by a BC3 monolayer (TM@V-B/C-Nn = 0-3-BC3) via high-throughput screening. Subsequently, the hybrid sampling method and XGBoost model are selected to classify eligible and non-eligible catalysts. Through feature interpretation using Shapley Additive Explanations (SHAP) analysis, two crucial features, that is, the number of valence electrons (N-v) and nitrogen substitution (N-n), are screened out. Combining SHAP analysis and electronic structure calculations, the synergistic effect between an active center with low valence electron numbers and reasonable C-N coordination (a medium fraction of nitrogen substitution) can exhibit high catalytic performance. Finally, six superior catalysts with a limiting potential lower than -0.4 V are predicted. Our workflow offers a rational approach to obtaining key information on catalytic performance from high-throughput screening results to design efficient catalysts that can be applied to other materials and reactions.
Cu-based catalysts possess great potential in the electrocatalytic nitrate (NO3-) reduction reaction for ammonia (NH3) synthesis. However, the low atomic economy limits their further application. Here we report a Cu single-atom (SA) incorporated in nitrogen-doped carbon (Cu SA/NC) with high atomic economy, which exhibits superior NH3 Faradaic efficiency (FE) of 100% along with an impressive NH3 yield rate of 7480 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1). As counterparts, Cus+n/NC, with mixed SA and nanoparticles (NPs), shows decreasing NH3 FE with decreasing SA content, but the production of N-2 and N2O increases gradually, which reaches the maximum on pure Cu NPs. In situ characterizations and theoretical calculations reveal that a higher NH3 FE of Cu SA/NC is ascribed to a lower free energy of the rate-limiting step (HNO* -> N*) and effective inhibition for the N-N coupled process. This work provides the intuitive activity trends of Cu-based catalysts, opening an avenue for subsequent catalysts design.
Electrocatalytic nitrate reduction to ammonia (NO3RR) is regarded as a viable alternative reaction to Haber Bosch process. Nevertheless, it remains a major challenge to explore economical and efficient electrocatalysts that deliver high NH3 yield rates and Faraday efficiencies (FE). Here, it demonstrates the fabrication of a 3D core-shell structured Co-carbon nanofibers (CNF)/ZIF-CoP for NO3RR application. Benefitting from the distinct electron transport property of Co-CNF and desirable mass transfer ability from amorphous CoP framework, the as-prepared Co-CNF/ZIF-CoP exhibits large NH3 FE (96.8 +/- 3.4% at -0.1 V vs reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE)) and high yield rate (38.44 +/- 0.65 mg cm-2 h-1 at -0.6 V vs RHE), which are better than Co-CNF/ZIF-crystal CoP. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations further reveal that amorphous CoP presents a lower energy barrier in the rate determination step of the protonation of *NO to produce *NOH intermediates compared with crystal CoP, resulting in a superior NO3RR performance. Eventually, an aqueous galvanic Zn-NO3- battery is assembled by using Co-CNF/ZIF-CoP as cathode material to achieve efficient production of NH3 whilst simultaneously supplying electrical power. This work offers a reliable strategy to construct amorphous metal phosphide framework on conducting CNF as efficient electrocatalyst and enriches its promising application for NO3RR. A facile strategy has been demonstrated to prepare 3D core-shell structured Co-carbon nanofibers (CNF)/ZIF-CoP with amorphous CoP framework derived from ZIF-67 as the shell, which can be used as an efficient NO3RR electrocatalyst, presenting a large NH3 FE (96.8 +/- 3.4% at -0.1 V vs RHE) and high yield rate (38.44 +/- 0.65 mg h-1 cm-2 at -0.6 V vs RHE). The electrocatalytic mechanism reveals that both efficient electron transfer property from Co-CNF and desirable mass transfer ability from amorphous CoP framework contribute to the superior NO3RR performance.image
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is a green and sustainable method for NH3 production, but it suffers from poor activity and low selectivity due to the high energy barrier of nitrogen activation. Herein, we propose the construction of ultrafine gold-copper nanowires (AuCu NWs) via a rapid wet-chemical reduction process for electrochemical ammonia synthesis. The one-dimensional structure provides a large surface area, good electrical conductivity and facilitated mass/charge transfer. Moreover, bimetallic composition can optimize the adsorption energy of intermediates on catalysts. As such, the AuCu NWs display higher NRR performance at a low potential of -0.2 V under neutral conditions, with an ammonia yield of 31.57 mu g h-1 mg-1cat. and a faradaic efficiency of 22.1%. This work provides a feasible strategy for the construction of ultrafine nanowire structures towards the electro-reduction of nitrogen to ammonia. We report a simple strategy to synthesize one-dimensional ultrafine AuCu nanowires for highly efficient electrocatalytic reduction of nitrogen to ammonia.
Electrocatalytic nitrate (NO3-) reduction represents one of the most promising approaches to mitigate NO3- pollution and yield NH3, but it is still challenged by the atomic economy and selectivity issues of substantial active sites. Here, we describe a comprehensive investigation on a series of single-atom catalysts (SACs) using nitrogen-doped carbon as substrate (metal/NC). The essence of activity is related to the extent of the electron transfer capacity (SAs -> NO3-). Among these examined SACs, the Cu/NC presents good performance toward NH3 synthesis, i.e., a maximum NH3 Faradaic efficiency of 100% with a high NH3 yield rate of up to 32,300 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1). X-ray absorption fine structure spectra and density functional theory calculations provide evidence that the electronic structure of Cu-N-4 coordination prohibits the formation of N-2, N2O, and H-2 and facilitates the orbital hybridization between the 2p orbitals of NO3- and 3d orbitals of Cu single-atom sites. Our study is believed to provide fundamental guidance for the future design of highly efficient electrocatalysts in NO3- reduction to NH3.
Developing efficient nanostructured electrocatalysts for N2 reduction to NH3 under mild conditions remains a major challenge. The Fe-Mo cofactor serves as the archetypal active site in nitrogenase. Inspired by nitrogenase, we designed a series of heteronuclear dual-atom catalysts (DACs) labeled as FeMoN6-aXa (a=1, 2, 3; X=B, C, O, S) anchored on the pore of g-C3N4 to probe the impact of coordination on FeMo-catalyzed nitrogen fixation. The stability, reaction paths, activity, and selectivity of 12 different FeMoN6-aXa DACs have been systematically studied using density functional theory. Of these, four DACs (FeMoN5B1, FeMoN5O1, FeMoN4O2, and FeMoN3C3) displayed promising nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) performance. Notably, FeMoN5O1 stands out with an ultralow limiting potential of -0.11 V and high selectivity. Analysis of the density of states and charge/spin changes shows FeMoN5O1 ' s high activity arises from optimal N2 binding on Fe initially and synergy of the FeMo dimer enabling protonation in NRR. This work contributes to the advancement of rational design for efficient NRR catalysts by regulating atomic coordination environments. A set of heteronuclear dual-atom catalysts (DACs) denoted as FeMoN6-aXa (a=1, 2, 3; X=B, C, O, S) immobilized within the pores of g-C3N4 was designed by density functional theory computations, aiming to explore the nitrogen fixation activity of the Fe-Mo center and the influence of the coordination environment.image
The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) driven by renewable electricity provides a green synthesis route for ammonia (NH3) production under ambient conditions but suffers from a low conversion yield and poor Faradaic efficiency (F.E.) because of strong competition from hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and the poor solubility of N2 in aqueous systems. Herein, an in situ proton filter covalent organic framework catalyst (Ru-Tta-Dfp) is reported with inherent Ruthenium (Ru) sites where the framework controls reactant diffusion by suppressing proton supply and enhancing N2 flux, causing highly selective and efficient catalysis. The smart catalyst design results in a remarkable ammonia production yield rate of 2.03 mg h-1 mgcat-1 with an excellent F.E. of approximate to 52.9%. The findings are further endorsed with the help of molecular dynamics simulations and control COF systems without in situ proton filter feasibility. The results point to a paradigm shift in engineering high-performance NRR electrocatalysts for more feasible green NH3 production. A covalent organic framework (COF) (Ru-Tta-Dfp) with in-situ proton filter ability to reduce proton supply while increasing N2 flux for efficient nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is developed. A remarkable ammonia production yield rate of 2.03 mg h-1 mgcat-1 with an excellent F.E. of 52.9% is achieved. This work prospects the development of COF-based NRR catalysts to enable effective NH3 production.image
Electrochemical ammonia synthesis, which couples oxygen evolution at the anode with nitrogen reduction at the cathode, holds great significance for future food and energy needs. Both of these half-cell reactions determine the overall cell potential and efficiency of the process. However, the employment of different catalysts on either side, due to discrete mechanisms, increases the complexity and material processing costs of the system, where the designing of a bifunctional catalyst active towards both the NRR and OER is of huge significance. Unfortunately, the initial screening of the designed catalysts via physical characterizations, optical methods and other techniques, does not provide details about the electrochemical activity. The scanning electrochemical microscopy (SECM) technique can be useful to screen multi-catalysts at the same time for their electrochemical activities. Herein, we employed the sample generation-tip collection (SG-TC) mode of SECM to screen the designed NixBy catalysts before half-cell investigations, which suggested that the catalyst synthesized via sonochemical reduction (SR), i.e. NixBy (SR), was a better catalyst. This inference was in accordance with the half-cell NRR and OER measurements (FE: 49% for NH3 production, OER overpotential: 300 mV). By virtue of this remarkable bifunctional activity, the NRR-OER coupled full cell was assembled, which initiated the NH3 production at just 1.7 V and produced NH3 (1.08 mg h(-1) mgcat(-1)) at the cathode and O-2 (0.81 mg h(-1) mgcat(-1)) at the anode after 2 h of electrolysis at 1.9 V.
The development of electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) catalysts with high catalytic activity and high stability is a significant challenge. In this work, a LaCu0.1Fe0.9O3-delta (LCuF) electrocatalyst for NRR was developed based on B-site Cu doping in the LaFeO3 (LF) perovskite. Good NRR catalytic performance and long-term stability were achieved when this catalyst was used as the cathode material for a protonic ceramic electrolysis cell (PCEC). Experimental results demonstrate that the synergistic effect between Cu and Fe enhances the NRR activity of this electrocatalyst. Electrons are transferred through the Fe-O2-delta-Cu chain, resulting in the formation of more Fe4+ at Fe sites and more Cu+ at Cu sites. This accelerates the electron transfer rate and thus increases the NRR rate. At the same time, more oxygen vacancies (OVs) are generated around Cu+. Fe4+ and OVs are both electron-deficient species, which are helpful for activating N-2 by trapping metastable electrons in the anti-bonding orbitals of adsorbed nitrogen molecules. This work provides a viable strategy for developing a highly efficient NRR electrocatalyst.
With its efficient nitrogen fixation kinetics, electrochemical lithium-mediated nitrogen reduction reaction (LMNRR) holds promise for replacing Haber-Bosch process and realizing sustainable and green ammonia production. However, the general interface problem in lithium electrochemistry seriously impedes the further enhancement of LMNRR performance. Inspired by the development history of lithium battery electrolytes, here, we extend the ring-chain solvents coupling law to LMNRR system to rationally optimize the interface during the reaction process, achieving nearly a two-fold Faradaic efficiency up to 54.78 +/- 1.60 %. Systematic theoretical simulations and experimental analysis jointly decipher that the anion-rich Li+ solvation structure derived from ring tetrahydrofuran coupling with chain ether successfully suppresses the excessive passivation of electrolyte decomposition at the reaction interface, thus promoting the mass transfer of active species and enhancing the nitrogen fixation kinetics. This work offers a progressive insight into the electrolyte design of LMNRR system. This work extends an interesting empirical electrolyte design law (ring-chain coupling law) to the lithium-mediated ammonia electrochemical synthesis system, which succeeds in improving the nitrogen fixation performance. Systematic theoretical calculation and experimental evidence jointly decipher the potential correlation between such strategy and enhanced performance from the angle of thermodynamics and mass transfer dynamics.+image
The development of environmentally sustainable and highly efficient technologies for ammonia production is crucial for the future advancement of carbon-neutral energy systems. The nitrite reduction reaction (NO2RR) for generating NH3 is a promising alternative to the low-efficiency nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR), owing to the low N=O bond energy and high solubility of nitrite. In this study, we designed a highly efficient dual-atom catalyst with Fe-Cu atomic pair sites (termed FeCu DAC), and the as-developed FeCu DAC was able to afford a remarkable NH3 yield of 24,526 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) at -0.6 V, with a Faradaic Efficiency (FE) for NH3 production of 99.88 %. The FeCu DAC also exhibited exceptional catalytic activity and selectivity in a Zn-NO2 battery, achieving a record-breaking power density of 23.6 mW cm(-2) and maximum NH3 FE of 92.23 % at 20 mA cm(-2). Theoretical simulation demonstrated that the incorporation of the Cu atom changed the energy of the Fe 3d orbital and lowered the energy barrier, thereby accelerating the NO2RR. This study not only demonstrates the potential of galvanic nitrite-based cells for expanding the field of Zn-based batteries, but also provides fundamental interpretation for the synergistic effect in highly dispersed dual-atom catalysts.
Electrochemical reduction provides a promising and sustainable technology for ammonia synthesis under ambient conditions. At the moment, the majority of research is focused on developing catalysts with high yield and high faradaic efficiency. However, the characteristics of mass transportation and electrokinetics of the reactor are seldom discussed. In this study, a mathematical model was developed that combined mass transportation, charge migration, and electrode kinetics. The model was validated by using experimental data with an average error of 4.7%. With the established theoretical model, the significant physical and chemical phenomena inside the reactor were discussed in detail. Effects of structural and operating parameters including applied potential, N-2 concentration of feed gas, electrolyte concentration, width of the electrolyte channel, thickness of the catalyst layer, and electrolyte flow rate were investigated. The sensitivities of different parameters were further evaluated. It is believed that the work could provide meaningful guidance for the reactor design and scale-up strategy of electrochemical reduction of the N-2-to-NH3 process.
The electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) driven by renewable electricity is an up-and-coming method for sustainable ammonia production. However, since it is a multi-intermediate reaction, the inherent scaling relations between the adsorption energies of intermediates place restrictions on the overall performance. Herein, asymmetrical heterobimetallic sites are proposed to break the restriction of scaling relations on catalytic activity and boost ambient ammonia synthesis. According to density functional theory calculations, the heteronuclear FeCo dimer sites featuring a polarized surface with multielectron sites enable weakening of the N0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000111111111111111000000000000000000011111111111111100000000000000000001111111111111110000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000N bond and maximized activation of N2. The optimization of the binding strength of certain intermediates thus becomes feasible, contributing to a significantly reduced energy barrier of the NRR. Experimentally, the asymmetrical heterobimetallic catalyst delivers a superior ammonia yield rate of 70.11 mu g h-1 mg-1 with a corresponding Faradaic efficiency of 32.16%. This study suggests that the presence of asymmetrical heterobimetallic sites defines a special opportunity for breaking scaling relations to achieve efficient multi-intermediate electrocatalytic reactions. Asymmetrical heterobimetallic FeCo dimer sites featuring a polarized surface with multielectron sites enable weakening of the NN bond and maximized activation of N2, contributing to significantly facilitated ambient ammonia synthesis.
Manipulating the coordination environment of individual active sites in a precise manner remains an important challenge in electrocatalytic reactions. Herein, inspired by theoretical predictions, a facile procedure to synthesize a series of symmetry-breaking zinc metal-organic framework (Zn-MOF) catalysts with well-defined structures is presented. Benefiting from the optimized coordination microenvironment regulated by symmetry-breaking, Zn-N2S2-MOF exhibits the best performance of nitrogen (N2) reduction reaction (NRR) with NH3 yield rate of 25.07 +/- 1.57 mu g h-1 cm-2 and Faradaic efficiency of 44.57 +/- 2.79% compared with reported Zn-based NRR catalysts. X-ray absorption near-edge structure shows that the symmetry-breaking distorts the coordination environment and modulates the delocalized electrons around the Zn sites, which favors the formation of unpaired low-valence Zn delta+, thereby facilitating the adsorption/activation of N2. Theoretical calculations elucidate that low-valence Zn delta+ in Zn-N2S2-MOF can effectively lower the energy barrier of potential determining step, promoting the kinetics and boosting the NRR activity. This work highlights the relationship between the precise coordination environment of metal sites and the catalytic activity, which offers insightful guidance for rationally designing high-efficiency electrocatalysts. A series of well-structured, symmetry-breaking zinc metal-organic framework catalysts are synthesized for nitrogen reduction, highlighting the correlation between the coordination environment of metal sites, low-valence Zn delta+ formation, and catalytic activity.image
As a cleaner and more energy-efficient alternative, the electrochemical reduction of N2 to NH3 under mild conditions has emerged as a promising avenue for environmental protection. However, developing catalysts with both high activity and selectivity has been a challenging task. The advent of atomically dispersed catalysts is revolutionizing the field of catalysis. Drawing inspiration from the successful fabrication of Ru trimer on graphitic carbon nitride (g-C3N4) nanosheets, herein, we adopted a series of trimeric metal clusters anchored on g-C3N4 monolayer (TM3@g-C3N4, TM = 3d, 4d and 5d transition metal atom), as well as utilized the criteria range to describe the stability, activity, energy cost and selectivity of supported trimers for N2 reduction reaction based on ab initio calculations combined with multi-level screening strategies. Finally, 5 candidate TM3@g-C3N4 (TM = Rh, Ru, V, Mo, and Re) exhibits decent catalytic activity with limiting potential ranging of -0.50 - -0.02 V. These spatially confined triatomic metal centers demonstrated proficiency in activating N2 molecules while exhibiting tunable surficial reactivity through modulation of the metal elements and interfacial electron coupling between trimers and underlying substrates. More importantly, a structure-activity relationship was established, which provides crucial insights for precise design of highly efficient atomically-precise catalysts at an atomic level for hydrogen fuel storage.
The electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) has emerged as a promising approach for synthesizing ammonia (NH3) from nitrogen (N-2) under mild conditions. However, due to the difficulty in activating stable N-2 molecules and the competition with the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), the development of active NRR electrocatalysts achieving a high NH3 formation rate and a high Faradaic efficiency (FE) is strongly desired. Herein, Cu-doped hematite (Fe2O3) nanorod arrays are synthesized by hydrothermal treatment and annealing under a N-2 atmosphere. At -0.15 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), 4.4% Cu-doped Fe2O3 exhibits a NH3 formation rate of 12.5 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a FE of 16.4%, demonstrating a significant improvement in the NRR performance with Cu doping. The introduction of Cu increases the number of oxygen vacancies on the catalyst surface and induces charge redistribution between the constituent Cu and Fe ions, promoting the adsorption and activation of N-2. Thus, this study not only offers an attractive earth-abundant NRR electrocatalyst but also provides an insight that heteroatom doping is effective to enhance the NRR activity through both defect engineering and electronic modulation.
The electrochemical N2 reduction reaction (NRR) has attracted much attention for its use in the production of fertilizers and other chemicals. Herein, we demonstrate that the NRR can be enhanced when using Fe/Co co-doped MoS2 (FeCo-MoS2) nanosheets as the electrocatalyst. At the optimal doping concentration, the FeCo-MoS2 nanosheets provided a NH3 yield rate of 3.27 mg/h/cm2 at -0.55 V [vs reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE)], a value superior to those of undoped MoS2, Fe-doped MoS2, and Co-doped MoS2 samples by 191, 176, and 116%, respectively. Moreover, the Faradaic efficiency of 6.28% at -0.35 V (vs RHE) exceeded those of the undoped MoS2, Fe-doped MoS2, and Co-doped MoS2 samples by 217, 186, and 132%, respectively. Density functional theory calculations revealed that the preferred reaction mediated by the FeCo-MoS2 electrocatalyst followed a distal pathway, with its potentialdetermining step having an energy barrier (0.54 eV) lower than that of undoped MoS2 (1.13 eV), suggesting that the FeCo-MoS2 nanosheets possessed superior electrocatalytic activity. We conclude that Fe and Co are efficient dopants for boosting the NRR activity of MoS2 catalysts.(c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The electrocatalytic conversion of reactive nitrogen species to ammonia is a promising strategy for efficient NH3 synthesis. In this study, we reveal that the hybrid Cu+/Cu0 interface is catalytically active for electrochemical ammonia synthesis from nitrate reduction. To maintain the hybrid Cu+/Cu0 state at negative reaction potentials, hydrophilic zeolite is used to modify Cu/Cu2O electrocatalyst, which demonstrates an impressive NH3 production rate of 41.65 mg h-1 cm-2 with-100% Faradaic efficiency of ammonia synthesis at-0.6 V vs. RHE. In-situ Raman spectroscopy unveil the high activity originates from the zeolite reconstruction at the electrode-electrolyte interface, which protects the valence state of Cu0/ Cu+ site under negative potential and promotes electrochemical activity towards NH3 synthesis.(c) 2023 Science Press and Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Published by ELSEVIER B.V. and Science Press. All rights reserved.
Electrocatalytic reduction of dinitrogen to produce ammonia at ambient conditions has increasingly attracted attentions. Molybdenum sulfide (MoS2) exhibits promises in electrocatalysis. However, the lack of reactive sites significantly limited the electrocatalytic activity of MoS2 when applied in the reduction of N2 to produce ammonia. Herein, we successfully prepared a NiSx/MoS2 heterostructural composite with abundant interfaces exposed. Moreover, the presence of metallic phase 1T-MoS2 provided better conductivity and more active sites. Benefited from this interface design, as-prepared NiSx/MoS2 composites exhibited excellent electrocatalytic ac-tivity in reduction of N2. The ammonia yield rate reached as high as 68.78 mu g h-1 mg-cat.1 at-0.60 V (vs. RHE) with a Faradic efficiency of 48.53 % at-0.50 V (vs. RHE), as well as charming selectivity and long-term stability. The density functional theory (DFT) calculation results indicated that the heterointerface formed between NiSx/ MoS2 composites facilitated electrons transfer. And the adsorption of N2 on the Mo site is more stable, which synergistically improves the NRR performance. This work provides new evidences of constructing heterojunction materials to accelerate electron transfer between interfaces for highly efficient electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction.
Ambient electrocatalytic nitrogen (N-2) reduction has gained significant recognition as a potential substitute for producing ammonia (NH3). However, N-2 adsorption and *NN protonation for N-2 activation reaction with the competing hydrogen evolution reaction remain a daunting challenge. Herein, a defect-rich TiO2 nanosheet electrocatalyst with PdCu alloy nanoparticles (PdCu/TiO2-x) is designed to elucidate the reactivity and selectivity trends of N2 cleavage path for N-2-to-NH3 catalytic conversion. The introduction of oxygen vacancy (OV) not only acts as active sites but also effectively promotes the electron transfer from Pd-Cu sites to high-concentration Ti3+ sites, and thus lends to the N(2 )activation via electron donation of PdCu. OVs-mediated control effectively lowers the reaction barrier of *N2H and *H adsorption and facilitates the first hydrogenation process of N-2 activation. Consequently, PdCu/TiO2-x catalyst attains a high rate of NH3 evolution, reaching 5.0 mmol gcat.(-1) h(-1). This work paves a pathway of defect-engineering metal-supported electrocatalysts for high-efficient ammonia electrosynthesis.
Nitrogen fixation using electrochemical methods on the surface of single-atom catalysts (SACs) provides a highly feasible strategy for green and low-energy-consumption ammonia (NH3) production. Herein, using density functional theory (DFT) calculations, we explored in detail the potential of monolayer BC3N2 SACs supported with 3d transition metal (TM) atoms (TM@BC3N2) to facilitate nitrogen reduction. The results revealed that the TM@BC3N2 systems exhibited remarkable catalytic activity in the nitrogen-reduction reaction (NRR). The fine NRR activity was related to the just-right bonding/antibonding orbital interactions between the 2 pi* of N-2 and the d orbitals of the TM ions. The nitrogen-adsorption configurations were found to have different activation mechanisms. In addition, the effects of convectively formed convex nitrogen defects (V-N) on the interaction between N-2 and V-N-TM@BC3N2 and the NRR process of V-N-TM@BC3N2 were studied, and it was found that V-N could fine-tune the reaction efficiency of the eNRR because after N atom dissociation to form V-N, the interaction of TM-C-3 was enhanced, and the activation of nitrogen and adsorption of NH3 by the TM-active centers were weakened. The present study can be used as a motivation for further experimental and theoretical research of 2D monolayers as NRR electrocatalysts.
Photocatalytic and electrocatalytic reactions to produce value-added chemicals offer promising solutions for addressing the energy crisis and environmental pollution. Photocatalysis is driven by light excitation and charge separation and relies on semiconducting catalysts, while electrocatalysis is driven by external electric current and is mostly based on metallic catalysts with high electrical conductivity. Due to the distinct reaction mechanism, the conversion between the two catalytic types has remained largely unexplored. Herein, by means of density functional theory (DFT) simulations, we demonstrated that the ferroelectric heterostructures Mo-BN@In2Se3 and WSe2@In2Se3 can exhibit semiconducting or metallic features depending on the polarization direction as a result of the built-in field and electron transfer. Using the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) as examples, the metallic heterostructures act as excellent electrocatalysts for these reactions, while the semiconducting heterostructures serve as the corresponding photocatalysts with improved optical absorption, enhanced charge separation, and low Gibbs free energy change. The findings not only bridge physical phenomena of the electronic phase transition with chemical reactions but also offer a new and feasible approach to significantly improve the catalytic efficiency.
The NH3 synthesis from N-2 plays an important role in the ecological cycle and industrial production. Different from industrial NH3 synthesis with high pollution and energy consumption, electrocatalytic NH3 synthesis is favored because of its environmental protection, energy saving, ambient reaction conditions and other characteristics. However, due to the low efficiency and poor reaction selectivity of the existing electrocatalysts, which can not be used actually, the development of new electrocatalysts for nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is particularly urgent. Herein, we designed a series of transition metal atoms anchored B-doped defective C3N surface (TM@B2C3N) as single-atom catalysts. Through the screening process of N-2 adsorption activation, N2H formation and NH3 desorption, finally the excellent electrocatalysts with strong stability and high activity (Cr@B2C3N and Mn@B2C3N) were obtained. After simulating the entire pathway, it was found that the NRR process on Cr@B2C3N and Mn@B2C3N via consecutive and distal pathways with the lowest limiting potential of -0.42 and -0.52 V, which have the good ability to inhibit hydrogen evolution reaction. Finally, the electronic properties were analyzed, and the reason for their high catalytic activity was summarized. This work provides a new idea for the rational design of NRR electrocatalysts and promotes the practical application of electrocatalysts.
Bimetallic oxides generally exhibit excellent electrochemical properties because of their strong electrocatalytic activity and the synergistic effects between different metals. In this work, three-dimensional flower-like nickel-manganese bimetallic oxides @ carbon cloth (NiMnOx@CC) were synthesized by in situ growth on carbon cloth with a simple hydrothermal reaction. The effects of different metal salt ratios on the structure and electrochemical properties of bimetallic oxides were studied systematically. Morphologies and microstructures of all samples were verified by field emission scanning electron microscopy, X-ray diffraction, and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. Our results showed that when the molar ratio of nickel-manganese reaches 1:1, the bimetal oxidation morphology has a regular flower-like structure, formed by the staggered accumulation of nanosheets. The obtained typical catalyst NiMnOx-3@CC possesses high ammonia yield (16 mu g(-1) h(-1) mg(-1)) and Faraday efficiency (FE) (19%) at -0.1 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), which is attributed to the synergistic effects between nickel and manganese oxides. On the one hand, this unique cross-stacking structure of nanosheets can effectively avoid the aggregation of catalysts, which is conducive to providing more active sites; on the other hand, the abundance of oxygen vacancy is conducive to the adsorption and activation of nitrogen gas. This work demonstrates an efficient in situ assembly strategy for bimetallic oxide electrocatalysts, which can improve the electrocatalytic reduction of nitrogen to ammonia at ambient temperature and pressure.
In this study, niobium nitride (NbN) is prepared via the urea-glass route by annealing a mixture of NbCl5 and urea at 650 degrees C under a flow of N2, and is used as a catalyst for the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). The as-prepared NbN exhibits a maximum production rate of 5.46 x 10-10 mol s-1 cm-2 at -0.6 V vs. RHE, along with an apparent FE of 16.33% at -0.3 V vs. RHE. In addition, the leaching of NbN is confirmed by ICP-OES, where the leached amount of Nb is almost identical to the amount of N measured by UV-vis. Moreover, 1H NMR experiments are performed using 15N2 as the feeder gas; the dominant detection of 14NH4+ peaks strongly suggests that the produced NH3 originates from the leaching of NbN rather than via an electrocatalytic process. Hence, for a comprehensive understanding of NH3 generation, especially when utilizing transition metal nitride (TMN)-based NRR catalysts, a thorough investigation employing multiple analytical methods is imperative. A NbN catalyst is prepared by the urea-glass route for NRR, with the produced NH3 originating from the leaching of NbN, rather than from an electrochemical reaction.
Electrochemical nitrate reduction reaction (NITRR) has attracted much attention for yielding ammonia. Thus, it is of great significance to exploit new catalysts with a high nitrate-to-ammonia (NO3--to-NH3) activity. In this study, we embedded different concentrations of Cu in an oxide octahedral molecular sieve (Cu(x)-OMS-1). We found that the Cu-dispersed OMS-1 optimizes the adsorption capabilities of the intermediates in NITRR and inhibits the competitive HER at a high current density. We reveal, using operando Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and theoretical investigations, that the introduction of copper effectively promotes nitrate protonation during NITRR. Consequently, the catalyst presents the capacity for reducing nitrate to ammonia at a high current density (>100 mA cm(-2)) with similar to 100% Faraday efficiency. The maximum NH3 partial current density reaches 148 mA cm(-2) with a high production rate (0.69 mmol h(-1) cm(-2)).
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR) is a promising method for sustainable ammonia production. Although the majority of studies on the eNRR are devoted to developing efficient electrocatalysts, it is critical to study the influence of mass transfer because of the poor N2 transfer efficiency. Herein, a novel bubble-based microreactor (BBMR) is proposed that efficiently promotes the mass transfer behavior during the eNRR using microfluidic strategies. The BBMR possesses abundant triphasic interfaces and provides spatial confinement and accurate potential control, ensuring rapid mass transfer dynamics and improved eNRR performance, as confirmed by experimental and simulation studies. The ammonia yield of the reaction over Ag nanoparticles can be enhanced to 31.35 mu g h-1 mgcat.-1, which is twice that of the H-cell. Excellent improvements are also achieved using Ru/C and Fe/g-CN catalysts, with 5.0 and 8.5 times increase in ammonia yield, respectively. This work further demonstrates the significant effect of mass transfer on the eNRR performance and provides an effective strategy for process enhancement through electrode design. A novel bubble-based microreactor to efficiently promote mass transfer during the eNRR using microfluidic strategies is presented. Benefiting from abundant triphasic interfaces, spatial confinement, and accurate potential control, the rapid mass transfer dynamics and improved eNRR performance can be efficiently ensured. This work demonstrates the significance of mass transfer and provides an effective strategy for process enhancement through the electrode design.image
Electrochemical ammonia (NH3) production from dinitrogen (N2) could be an environmentally sustainable alternative to the traditional manufacturing process (Haber-Bosch). However, a flow electrolysis cell that could elevate the ammonia production to a scale of practical relevance has not been demonstrated yet for this emerging technology. Besides N2, NH3 can be electrochemically produced from nitrogen-containing compounds such as nitrogen oxides (NOx), nitrite (NO2-), and nitrate (NO3-). Product crossover in those processes could significantly interfere with accurate performance evaluation, which has received limited attention. Herein, the commonly used Nafion N112 membrane was found ineffective at preventing the undesired crossover of NH3 or ammonium (NH4+) ions in a flow cell even at the 1 ppm concentration level, with a normalized flux as high as 247 mu mol m -2h-1 in Na2SO4 at-0.1 mA cm-2. Severe NH4+ adsorption in Nafion was also observed, particularly when no supporting electrolyte is present. Moreover, the interactions between Nafion and NH4+ depend on the supporting electrolyte type, pH changes induced by ion exchange and applied current during continuous electrolysis. Increasing the membrane thickness altered the rate of NH4+ losses, however, the NH4+ crossover and volatilization cannot be fully mitigated. Lastly, the cation exchange between membrane-adsorbed NH4+ and Na+ from the electrolyte is proposed as a membrane-cleaning procedure to reduce false positives in electrochemical NH3/NH4+ production studies.
Two renewable methods for reducing greenhouse gas emissions associated with ammonia (NH3) production are the renewable H-2-combined Haber-Bosch process and the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR). However, progress in eNRR has fallen short of expectations. Here, we demonstrated a well-controlled electrochemically viable and clean NH3 production with spinel-type (V,Ni,Mn)(3)O4-x/Nb2O5-y nanoflowers, successfully synthesized via a facile one-pot hydrothermal method on nickel foam, aimed at boosting the eNRR performance, after surveying many Ni-V-Mn-Nb quaternary, ternary, and binary oxide systems for their electrochemical and structural properties. The best NH3 yield from a quaternary system exhibited the most promising results, achieving 3.19 mg h(-1) cm(-2) (1.28 mg h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1)) at a potential of -0.5 V vs. RHE, with a remarkable faradaic efficiency (FE) of 22.7%, which is superb among the current state of the art methods. Besides, the electrocatalyst performance, evaluated in terms of energy conversion, showed a cell energy efficiency of 37.66%. An NN bond-weakening micro-mechanism of electron transport for the nonstoichiometric Ni-V-Mn-Nb oxide system is proposed to elucidate this exceptional activity. Furthermore, we suggest a reaction micro-mechanism encompassing electron transport and N-2 trapping, contributing to the observed excellent activity in NH3 production.
The energy-intensive processes for the industrial production of ammonia necessitates the development of new methods to be proposed that will aid in reducing the global energy consumption. Specifically, the electrocatalytic nitrate reduction reaction (NO3RR) to produce ammonia is more thermodynamically feasible than the electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). However, it is hindered by a low catalytic activity due to its complex reaction pathways. Herein, we synthesized a novel electrocatalyst, RuOx-Co3O4 nanoparticles, with abundant interfaces, which exhibited an enhanced catalytic activity for efficient ammonia synthesis. This catalyst delivered a partial current density of 65.8 mA cm(-2) for NH3 production, a faradaic efficiency (FE) of 89.7%, and a superior ammonia yield rate of up to 210.5 mu mol h(-1) cm(-2) at -0.6 V vs. RHE. X-ray photoelectron and Raman spectroscopy revealed that the formed interfacial Ru-O-Co bond can decorate the electronic structures of the active sites and accelerate the absorption of NO3-, thus promoting the production of ammonia.
Ammonia is of great importance in fertilizer production and chemical synthesis. It can also potentially serve as a carbon-free energy carrier for a future hydrogen economy. Motivated by a worldwide effort to lower carbon emissions, ammonia synthesis by lithium-mediated electrochemical nitrogen reduction (LiNR) has been considered as a promising alternative to the Haber-Bosch process. A significant performance improvement in LiNR has been achieved in recent years by exploration of favorable lithium salt and proton donor for the electrolyte recipe, but the solvent study is still in its infancy. In this work, a systematic investigation on ether-based solvents toward LiNR is conducted. The assessments of solvent candidates are built on their conductivity, parasitic reactions, product distribution, and faradaic efficiency. Notably, dimethoxyethane gives the lowest potential loss among the investigated systems, while tetrahydrofuran achieves an outstanding faradaic efficiency of 58.5 +/- 6.1% at an ambient pressure. We found that solvent molecules impact the above characteristics by dictating the solvation configurations of conductive ions and inducing the formation of solid electrolyte interphase with different compositions. This study highlights the importance of solvents in the LiNR process and advances the electrolyte optimization for better performance.
